---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Application

## Definition

A Mendix project that can be registered in MTA, enabling it to be tested.

## Properties

### Key
The identifying number assigned by MTA that is used in the [MTA Public API](api) endpoints.

### Name       
The name of the Mendix App in the Mendix cloud.     

### Project ID
The unique identifier of the Mendix App in the Mendix cloud.

## Page and Widget loading
A Boolean setting that determines whether Pages and Widgets are loaded into MTA, whenever new [Application Revisions](application-revision) are downloaded for this Application. Loading Pages and Widgets determines whether Frontend teststeps can be generated by MTA.

## Business rules
- An MTA user is associated to a Mendix user in MTA. This MTA user can only add Mendix Applications that are registered to the Mendix user. 

To learn more about configuring an MTA user, read the How To section.

## Actions on an Application

### View Applications in use by MTA
- Navigate to the `Applications` page to view all Applications that are used in MTA.

### Register Application in MTA
- Use the top menu in MTA to navigate to the `Applications` page .
- Use the `Add` button to add an Application.
- Select the Application you want to Add.

:::note manual registration
Apps that are not hosted in the Mendix cloud don't always show in this list.<br/>
Also, Apps that you have left, may still appear in the list, but cannot be registered in MTA.

Add a Mendix App manually by using the <i class="fas fa-ellipsis"></i> button on the top right.
:::

### View information about the Application
- Navigate to the `Applications` page.
- Click on <i class="fal fa-info-circle"></i> to view the Application Key (next to the App title) and the Project ID.

:::note
The Project ID is the same ID as the `App ID` that can be found in [Mendix Sprintr](https://sprintr.home.mendix.com/), under the `Settings` page, after you selected an App.
:::

### Enable loading Pages and Widgets
Enabling Page and Widget loading will allow for the generation of Frontend teststep(s).

- Navigate to the `Applications` page .
- Click on the <i class="fas fa-ellipsis"></i> button.
- Click `Enable loading pages and widgets`.

### Unregister Application from MTA
- Navigate to the `Applications` page .
- Click on the <i class="fas fa-ellipsis"></i> button for the Application you want to unregister.
- Click `Delete`.

## Related topics
- [Application Instance](application-instance)
- [Application Revision](application-revision)
- [Test Setting](test-setting)


## Feedback?
Missing anything? [Let us know!](mailto:support@menditect.com)

Last updated 27 November 2025